- [Instructor] When migrating to Java 11,
your application may experience issues
if it references JDK internal APIs
that were encapsulated in Java nine.
To help identify application components
or third party libraries that rely upon JDK internal APIs,
we can use the Java dependency analysis tool
or JDeps for short.
The tool was introduced in Java nine,
and it allows us to scan byte code
to identify static dependencies between classes.
To get started with JDeps,
We're first going to modify our pom.xml file
in order to create a build name.
So I'm going to navigate down to the build section
of our POM and here,
I'm just going to specify the final name
for the artifact we'd like to create as hplus-sport-api.
I'll go ahead and save the POM.
And then we're going to navigate to our run configurations,
and we will build the application
using our Java eight profile.
There we'll see that the application begins to package.
And once the application has packaged,
we can go back to our project.
And within the project directory,
you're going to see the target folder.
Let's navigate into the target folder with the command line.
And then inside of this folder,
you'll notice the hplus-sport-jar file.
This is our packaged application,
and we can use JDeps to scan it.
Let's go ahead and do that.
The initial scan with JDeps was not very helpful.
We get a list of all the classes
that are required for the application.
Now we are only interested in those
that use the JDK internal APIs.
So let's pair down these commands on.
We can use JDeps and then specify
the JDK internals option.
And then once again, we'll point to our jar file.
Now JDeps is going to identify any source code
within our application that is using a JDK internal API.
Now you're going to notice that this scan output
is limited to the source code within our application.
It doesn't take into consideration
any third party libraries.
So we need to do some additional work
in order to scan those.
If we navigate back to our pom.xml file,
you'll notice that we're using spring-boot
for this application.
That means we're going to get a fat jar that packages
all of the dependencies into it.
So we need to include an additional maven plugin
in order to get those dependencies out of the fat jar
so they can be scanned.
So once again,
let's navigate to the build section of our POM.
And here we're going to add another plugin.
And we'll specify the coordinates of the plugin.
The groupId is going to be org.apache.maven.plugins.
And then for the artifactId,
we're going to specify the maven-dependency-plugin.
And then for the version of the plugin
that we're going to use, it's going to be 3.1.2.
Okay, and now we need to specify
when this plugin will execute.
And we do that by using the executions tag.
And within the executions tag,
we're going to add an execution.
And here the execution will need an ID.
I'm just going to name that copy-dependencies.
The next thing we'll do is specify the phase
when we will execute this goal.
And we want to do it during the package phase.
And then from there,
we're going to specify the goal
that we would like to have executed.
And we do that within the goal tag
that is within the goals tag.
So just the plural form of it.
That's the parent of our goal tag.
And then we specify the goal that we would like to use.
It's going to be the copy-dependencies goal.
And this will cause all of the dependencies packaged
within the fat jar to be placed on the file system.
Okay once that's in place,
we can go ahead and run our Java eight build again.
Okay, there we can see the build was successful.
Let's head back over to the terminal.
And now if we look within our target directory,
you can see the dependency directory.
And inside of that dependency directory
is going to be all of the jar files related
to the dependencies in the application.
I'm then just going to step back a directory.
And from here,
we can now use JDeps to scan not only our source code,
but the dependencies of our application.
So we'll issue the jdeps command.
And now we need to specify the class path.
And we're going to point to the dependency directory
and have it scan all of the files within it.
Then we're going to use the JDK internals flag again.
And then from here, we want to tell it to be recursive.
And then finally, we point to our jar file.
Okay so this time you'll notice
that the scan took much longer,
and it was able to identify some additional access
to JDK internal APIs within not only our source code,
but our dependencies.
So these issues that JDeps has identified
within both our source and third party libraries
are going to cause our application to break
when we migrate to Java 11.
So we're going to have to do some work
to resolve these issues in order
to make the migration successful.